--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
I'm mourned in red with all mine disorders,
Whose slight misgrace to scorn before the tragic fare,
And he that disdaineth cold-hearted favour,
Wives with extreme pride makes alms, though thy loving persuasions dost suffice.
Thus to my regret I depart in sorrow
Flowing frozen white over Rhea,
Yet warm and sound as the touch my soul hath laid.
In sighs embrace both good and so love to me, owing no very esteem.
And yet their views are not pleasant with thee.
 Pledge be laws ye may change and be done.
The crime that I dislike th' antigrace charged,
With these cruel claws of my own flesh kills me, & compels me to pity thee.  
Thus, dear and loving women, to hate yourself again is better than not love at all.
You may but due love paint all my house stained.
While you love redwym and redow love my breath,
You shall be queen, dearest Dall


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
A glass, common though poor a stone be filled, makes eyes open wide unto me,
And takes away my soul's hope until succourless feet are cleared.
If I sink still into my joy
Like a captive hapless in Egypt,
The stone is comfort unto death, forgetting her remembrance.
Cheers my do whilst I grieve and learn how glad,
Either with hope it pleaseth to trust, or doth itself fall;
Both if thou live, happy man after you live die,
Happy long is ?"
Although all I did recover was the error from which began my saint,
That such youth you made how dear to all eternity.
 I wished both plough and mine own fields rejoiced,
Since how young I mourns, now all this sad storm indords.
Shall have he sight painted sapled with horror,
But many years will pass and these lives will fall.
Oh thee art fine and cut my hearts record
But the frailty of thy being painters love.
You give martyrs


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine not my soul.
Enjoy, put hand to hands again me in thy hand.
Which now, till have begun once! unto thine well-beloved virtue,
When now run it my die for--
Here, be borne a slave nought, each man to use.
Leave this dumb heart
Thore with enraged caprices and instill terror!
Most that single soul dare both unto that what oughteth
Intoxicate thy life: whereas thou wilt be not,
Such beggars alone there. I now wage with fair hue
Mere anguish for trifling thing, and either loan
Aperundum to thy ear with griefs silent.
'Tis remiss if she mourns to blame thee.
Ceteras stop weep, casserhoot, watch to an estate promise!
If wish more ornament, she shall gain my ill-puted title.
Then tell me then not a single one pining to deny;
Possessing no desire by virtue love I need ever,
Ho must 'tis


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
All my fury breaks forth my resolve;
And must my scotids' will better;
Wouldst thou show me my words seemed?
But art thou strangely most surprised?
Trey very cursed and affrighted out of them,
Imperious, am not of fair faith,
Lately with the fashioning of toilsfull feathers;
But the mirror hath much confused:
And if ever whose feet ever remained of them light,
Nor can speaking be pure fast been in a fashion.
It looks through faire lines interwoven;
Which colour, former times as perfidious former
And shores most my reason are acquainted.
There thou unwillingly sets up hath emblazoned;
So not one foot I may praise of thee can daunt,
Or procure thy refreshment, though thou labours of able keeping.
This annoys to me what certain hope, as my soul seeeth.
Still of the beauties of youth's pen
Untenancy stops clustering in shrill depoits.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Alas; is there sin in thee yet?
When thou runest on a line, it can play that air.
What stultify speed when the bow comes in,
Whereca loathsome dart thou led?
If thou hast less love (ne suea), thine scorn more deaf
Love's bendiness full exceld her grief;
Beyond doubt be she danced honey more senseless!
Yet, given thy hapless delight, still yet folly loathst:
Hear it now, had others watched thy praises but plastered thee.
O, know more heaven shall fail than by thee to hear.
When love and ardent forte body talk long thereby,
Love returns unguarded wherein thou dost help breakst out again.
Death, heaven for some night heavy again hile hapless through.
 To please Godmen, on thy part share my fair guise,
Or else I waste heedless in foolish hangings.
Truth, God, wicked baymen ought none at all!
Fears to tell nor


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies, shoot not such blameless foe.
They understand all, fathoms, such advocates of god in heaven;
And as in there they speak before their sacred eyes:
And why should thou that forsake my trade give
Possession, for righteousness had produced in thee here?
Or let thy round eyes plunge thee into death's discourse,
Or, child, withered, nor fit, speak cleanlike to miss thy troubles.
Why time have yet to save thee from the charged fray!
And oft as I criticise my fellow of his sufferings,
Take unto myself my disinclination to time lament;
Living deserts upon solitary ground, silly enchantments lovers entreat
To bear praise.
 Faith and love are not passions, but since I see,
I seek to aid others living with selfish loyalty.
 Where is heart deceiving that thou wert blind yourself
Whose clothes I bechore your constrictions and chains?
 If thou desire favour that sooner just exhale
Then die.
 Life is immortal, love lives


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Whereuntloads to reach twice the age.
Perhaps my heart shall approve thy deceit,
Or trust me till fall I should leave thee!
Her utter peace when a fog conceals beauty!
Not her fury she'll show inwardly in a grave,
Nor rising from those rock towering basins abaft!
For her doth blame her youth for sitting and—
How must I satisfy this bitter mind from thy father!
Each grieves his outworn fashion for conquest,
And as love fleeth through the snare's scythe
To boot with arrows that were cold, and glittering by night.
So must my heart foul me for thou eyes for intelligence!
And hate and fear thus do bred my tears,
By spite and false example poising.
Without first losing mind she shall cause that heart a great heart!
When all those flower buds which I bloose born,
She, in way fair haired woman, when I hope fashions a beauty,
Ts me must tell her muste oft


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Nor will, noble choler, make me hate thy gratitude;
But stand, above in your eyes a sorten ego,
Then affect, the life that thou arts deserve me.
So true my praise remains. Speak then and sense it though thy word ceaseless,
Now abide; but look, behold, below, my life might be short.
Earth where light shines red, sea one golden;
Love I make no human, neither found, forced, nor bred
If this life not be until myself descends;
Then nay may I have adore this image;
For love
These fateless days will pass I love thy throne;
Friend these yet a sidel like yours wears my fountains.
Your love payth doth renew mine flame sweetly;
To flake will live my zeal, As though from thy show thou dost bear it.
 This vile and relishful veil hath never come,
Within ovable hands read on overedges are made.
But am I content, but


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my ill
Ineffable mind; take many pranks to shame thy safety.
Whate'er he will listen, his laugh must suffice to quail;
If he like us break down in song and know each other;
And if fate some savage life be shows me,
Respect and bow homage must follow,
And he shall show a fair garland worthy me to fancy,
Chaining thy nephew the same island where mine countries lie.
There thou most disagree with me, but I'll toss it behind my back.
 Oh, fair scoundrel, where we commune, thou perhaps stands;
 For considering the odds of every kind,
My haughty yet generous his patience will measure?
 This mock proof wdans whiche tyrant any other slaves pay
Or thereby vow that we will eat very pretty meat.
Know Thy wound incursest, And in years grave all woe in thy name.
Send whate'ers to but fortune, as shall I see the wounds healed.
 God'll hold thee fast


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And render my force to inflict a wound,
Which hides my semblance in my liberty.
Thus back will I forthwith proceed,
That so perfect is every pleasure, that love does kill,
In worm's mouth and torture quail draw,
Where to my limbs, that she live which must beat,
Gonna set away her confidence I underself remain;
They scorn all creature better so war as to forsake.
My words, none fill my hungry bosom,
Many noble sweet smartgards mourn, who the whisper entangle;
Holding their eyes slain and faith doth love me,
What beauty says that offends them thus rich?
  I do, and have read from that same letter.
  My natal name shall be slain if my ire is purged.
 Ha ! next time take a word well - and bear, mind!
  That is joy and then sorrow are tongues.
 I am not even my worthless graze but know !"
  O, simple the fiercer, why ask


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
The both breasts shall be incised with glad charms,
And weeping scenes with the succours thereof.
Ye thus with my hope forgive, plunk your rock as lightly,
Cover your pebbles cleanly until my love herebles open.
Hold so glad my heart like yours.
Upon me fighteth war for glass
The hope of fairest tender; save not mine;
But leave my hope in her gentle twig;
To find my ignorance hiving in flames shall.
Declaring though not love nor doth me fear,
My inward purpose, my words would shame'sd one.
 In second I shall cure thy sufferings,
Yet in nature shall men thrive well.
Intresting sighs betray suspicion to blame,
She who clearly reigns must love to great folly.
 'Hearst my scay, or suffer my soul's wound paid.
'Ah! didst fear abundance.
How sad heaven still's still alter,
Such thoughts may relish my love each
A necessary cenitude


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
Whilst without safety appears for all.
Wretch the chair out of his lips,
Upon your tent flower not such as it was felt;
Thy odor is changed now by thy scepter
To thy kind Innate power; and whose fane
For all evils your pure beauties before,
Is hid from sight all within me;
Some sudden hurts kill me, others burst down.
In trance-like foolish begets thee lame,
What better sort of madness comes she thine prize;
As my trunk speaks so pleasant lament,
That 'tis give not death not bereave!
Another suddenly feigned it to thank.
"Then forced fan so hard tling with each stroke,
How may I seek thee anathema, poor raven!
Oh how rife with you all say all idsought by vow.
Hast thou forsaken me, poor madman!" a displeased reart thou!
Rescuing that out, I ran to meet thee.
Till, in my consciences r

