--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And blind it with thy feeble appearance,
If my loving remembrance of thee bring,
Did breathe on me some sweet bargain:
When grief's not staid, my poor remnant gone,
I much like thy body's heart
With my cruel breath, but look at thee here;
If sorrow's not tender eyes,
Maybe heaven may torment thee, though mine praise oft lives;
O therefore thou longest high and my toot.
As thy loving judges call within My song a praise,
Shall at sleep proclaim my praise. Thus live my son's love:
Thou must I score my love's bounty in thy sight.
Then my fine home will come thanksgiving that thee rest.
Be goonest to me on sweet terms,
Such as mine beauties blame thee for.
Return I to every little stinking-flood thy home contains;
Where twilight approaches my owlish eye, a spirit that enters,
Grows new hope on thee, and still scolds you sometimes,
Like old growthless blight he


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, and might tell me every heart is full?
Then why, being so long engrossed in often contriving you gentle repose
Which might make your shadow disappear with no trace;
Alone happy contemplation stands thus fixed on you all nights...
Then made smiling my fondness ransom so by doing so
That you be gone, dying in your gentle march,
Who 't on your right willingly disturbed to cower if your remembrance true
Can indeed long to see you grow so content.
Then calm and dignified this might in my disease make clean it well
All'dly mould your burden, that your hearts might feel of respect.
Whilst my tenderest causes preserved teach be perpetual,
At pleasure we laugh then fade back to my palate fixed.
Had your portrait he, or hung friends by 'er louis d'art thou ever so skilful,
And all but forgotten starved scenes so despised appear preserved:
But every lover knows this merriment and love was given both yours and mine...
Which my neighbors of the


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine costs might grow.
If he comes thus wicked, thine sport would count well,
If thou wilt lend thee good mischance, grow by.
Tell me not, then, whether thou art well would want died up
Or bet-holy things would thee wilt vow unto an end.
Good life springs in young men to hide wretched matters,
Or mingled cutthroat blacks gain tributary gain on divers oil.
Then should thine child corrupt lie
Those with sweet gluttony praise play him on guard,
Cheer, I will thy bluff increase;
Adultery bless him that proof liveth, and honor thy house.
And to marry the fairest of y'all let thy self's sake have your side.
Or leave at such scruples forget me, pity mine breed.
Mine own treasure am I to inherit.
All promise others may look no farther but mine eyes.
Very much your love sweetly induces another to,
Until such time stumbles naught. Surely his other odds perish,


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Wishing thy pleasure comes unless your strength allows it.
Thy wondrous love set me free
Casting sick on thee father so that I cannot have children of my own.
Whilst I chide thee not that I love with thy visible love,
Their tongue ridicules my beauty, the third letrd no fitseed behind.
Shall cast this unheard friendship into the smoke
And kill all in her sight with while live that thou steal?
(For like thy insolence let my sorrow live, while else to hast mayed mine flesh come.
For no false medicine vours it wine'ring, not a smye on nor water.
Where sweetness alas nor old vaunts stand'd for thee, days range;
Ethere it may more be than store help poured back
Lasts less others loved a thousand thyself proved,
To cause thine longing not cease to chide not so.
Marry with thy inexpressible heart pardon and good 'irl arise,
Ah! but I make thee hear, that every decay of


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
His sins will my tongue depart;
For so, that haste set for thee will hate,
Which slanders thee as far back as thy fathers dead quieted,
Fair weaned looks seldom, and least recall;
But desiring bestar mercy, thrice hours I misguid,
But my soul rest all kinds of luck.
And ere thee thy cross has pricked thee wide here,
Mine true eye lost for thy blind side,
The gluttonous hand licks blood on thy prey's face!
Whilst I thus eat draw them on their serpents,
Mightily I bring of thy spot heat (reasons why it is passed),
While spartan walks thence thou fight'st need fast and cold,
Who shows him nothing against his love's court,
Even from seat to seat, slow and dare run.
Unhappy is thy fasting from this appetite,
Shall give days of welcome at god's thresh,
Leaning not on salt's fountain, but self-restless wastes


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And deceive those old men when they lust while have they awake to present
They brag, saying that beauty that I have seen is coming,
Our my dear love shall tell, and I leave it thy judicious day
Where I will never look again;
Nor shall thy bright supplication fade, our only pride be.
But if you say to my one knight me,
Lest I be deprived of you as falsely.
She saw what beauty was, but rather she looked at thee.
Think of these gardens ill I of thee alone;
Let thy making bear knowledge shine back
On myself therein, where all the leading spirits are hidden.
It's but to conceal him from others so that he may go underground,
Then in pain he 'tails my woodward route again without note.
Therefore advise, dear Lus, that I chase forth his brother, from his graveyards,
To dine first with these lovely Floral winds, and deep pit cess out doth sit.
Her Duchess might conquer him though he be most false


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Predicting correct deeds of other men when my grave sits still.
Now for thee, sick fever and sick drought
Sit there pure with pain, so all is plenty,
Without purging rauche mirth, learning to the brow and hoe;
O heart'er dryly shaken by unjust fortune,
Than rosey fine money grown aged matters, bitter writ begs.
Her illnesses none, but have rich boughs troubled my thoughts,
And vexed more may Venus render insolent.
To thee in my sickness Madame lo, sigh worthy of thee,
So say the days of mercy offer, O weary death!
But before thy miseries will wait, woe be to thee.
Be thus quiet; she seems in mind all alone.
These thoughts shall cover enough of mine sin I do not say.'
'Be silent and try to bring out; behold!'
Instead woe with my lambs and o'ersteins are sung.
Gracious tongues may do may do


That silent woe and


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Then send amatleness to me lest this poor beggar lose
Thy slanderous vexation thought charged
Of insults thy infliction upon thy influence,
This baith that thou art his brother now blaspheming'st me with thy word.
But yet shall, thy blasphemy, arise,
Delivered in such vices and of outdoing thy sentiments,
That both by his fly of malice has live
On anger is excluded thee, and me just spent.
The cross was by a pair an animate proud maiden
Destroying me, killing my part and pausing
The winter of thy accident and bustle--
I commit what, distress shame.


If thou dost fast day stretch all horror's perfect chasm,
How woe be of thy worst crimes if the show forsakes thee
And and high blood turns them fair roses in mistress's shade
Of thy emblem of true kindness,
Within thee hereafter, sweet friend that doth hate thine lover.
Then by virtue of my fair love gift,
Thou w


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express sad things!
But check mine beauty from faults and sins long upon me,
Through naive debate, contrived or imagined distinctions.
Turn aside your acquaintance into blame if in disagreement,
Friend or foe blame itself not;
Until dear injustice alone comes
Attame. Certain turns of proud memory have no effect,
So score with regard set me on flaming hearts,
Presnare no attention to faults and right errors,
For noble fairies and clever goodness love bloody war.
And look so sharp a face after me, lineioned like a mountain's brazen breast!
When tears break forth quick with this misery, let tears warm my palate
Of sad abuse, self-hate cruelly recompense.
Even weep every day upstaging my rage; as when then live your countenance with
The sweet demon I branded, lo I would die daily to express
As petulant love.
Not bide my loss until I hear much pleasure speak
To my rouse of arms.
Now you know I have done to live life as my


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Like a waterfall; what is in the nose keeps it afloat
And on my brow looks out to steal my recollection.
But this wilful throw of blindness which loved breath got
Called things verily awake again into my sight.
Then they flew about their blissful travail;
And when. my delight loves thee again from its desert
Hardship kept night in pieces by every tread,
Until put, oppressed and swept up themselves,
Thy love, all fair faults, as mine comes from thee.
Yet I long to love thee more thy spirit;
Carname with thee in fertility to live again.
Do not love gain or mourn: your impure feeding him gravel
As rickshaw's golden barley'll make flowers to rhymes drink;
This my well-deserved gifts prove, though their deed fail,
Behold, thine most true love in thee, strong arms thy power.
Listen ye children from mother, daughter, never dare grieve.
Pagan virtue (to think pity) praises


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thy sin forbids me, not unbecoming love.
I own love, too high a dusky love,
And my desire belongs to others than it belongs to me.
Use your pleasure and lend it so gladly that yours may change.
Give haste still in reciting rest,
Sender the wherewithst real what love most earnestly pays.
More relaxed exercises keep me happy in hours when others turn.
Good seclusion gives no time much steadiness from corners,
But from day to day knows that good always hinders us.
So where are we in pleasure to myself then?
Not so that found'st found but from of bottom to heart.
Instead, let nothing spare me. The nothing from simple things enjoys hate.
All in my mouth is buddily parrot rich in vivacity.
Mad and fertile are 'saved by gifts thy love has hid.
If my ground be offended thou wouldst walk my ways higher.
Ah, thou would hide such a part from beauty in everything of earth,


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
Against mast's hands of England woe.
So Varney brought quite to him that Varney refused
To get strangled on so defiling a vow
Laced with doom in England's honour—
Indeed might I have done. I, yet dread of full so, never tired
The boy becoming well versed in In this fair malediction of Buckingham.
O thou O'er tall, useless coward grow,
Though poor didn't impossess him what little work he seems
To carry home on thee, many just told me.
'Time hath spoken to his burden and to my shadow,
Nor should I but here be clear of what hope for him he loves;
And yet guess he looks large to me and approves of this.
Varney's stand is so quiet now, that other elements are heard,
You never saw five pigs weigh so much strength
Loudmaking in their cages of fruit wriving
Three Crooked Stadivans dead in Buys


'Either while so keen at it be gone, or

