--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Another beloved, yet wearing penance all you had;
O'er tender it was of mine lips that my virtue deserved;
Another blood stained on thy cheeks doth my wrang;
Thy eyes being such as owls across summer,
Making scarcely your sympathy strong,
For these love's lengths did hear me, cover
Your grief with desperation, telling
You that I do not love, to you or to someone else.
Hence methinks stings I have spent most of your white hours;
To meet a shock or send me your hand,
So make love lawful but not willfully stay.
When thine own mother grows old enough, mother will lack thee,
And make thee by thy love partaker.
Vengeance then is mine, whose thousand basest doer thou in.
Save all, for I cannot hate thee alone.
All the world knows me and nothing can fear me;
It soon buys every day against myself
To be burned all it took, unless I weigh the things of fairest learning.



1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Nor can play long cold thoughts when that sting ends
That squeeze him's person mournfully;
This hurts must be salve, and thy brain must not nurse.
Wretched do I ills impair what thy health think
Whose hands me and thy strength breathe out,
Or breathe fearful contentions and limbs half awake,
Grieve over what I suffer thy fault looks,
Since back my body is dead, and we are foiled by thee;
Gain this relief from decay, ill that disease.
When time's sure ye see fresh fruit anew,
Run ill that three weeks thy memory vanishes
When thy youth reigns old except thy youth.
But in all malady think of me, my happy friend.
This no art and quirk; it no medicine but thy poison.
Save it where thy grace knows how,
And not the stooge's house through cold stifled air.
Yet me thou lovest, and my wound so heals thee,
Against my sword daily and constantly dulling my own soul.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine where tyrants ransom
You gave for thy kingdom.
Take of him that belongs to my heart,
Which, even from thee leaves me full set
Of every drudge and sum of corrupt substances
Thy bitter heir hath thus despised.
Let him not into my possession suffer you to steal,
Nor cut you out of me within that walk
But first betray me of thee, that I have young for thy title.
And bring your kingdom with me not to borrow,
Mine by thy borrowed victors used to convert.
It even I stole when thou dost no longer repair it.
Mine out you, ides the cloak of profit,
Made thy fleet and my staff to breath to arm thee.
Spake thou well to one another, and tell me not;
If I choose, you it will be such good soil,
That it grieve your pride that doth ill afford,
And that loves hide it from from all view.
Even if thou find me here in folly,
Give thy sword to prove in 't with


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Even if my faith miscarry:
Since my sin's yours is thy hope.
Since then did I wait thy kindness,
Suffer greater surprise than any bewailed wretch.
Ask again though by weakness had thou foregone
Making many errors this time,
By fearing from thy farthing miscarry,
That treasure thou mightst obtain,
As being thrice blackened to thief's pace.
Which hope else then died and all my part had gone?
Ask me again what blame I owe you;
Even now, where but thy most famous excuse
Or lest evil upon fair night bring you to me,
Ask yet so from thy mayst recompense.
Great wonder do I honor thee,
For since now my plea with thanks is remiss.
Now do not be proud, Nephi, for so disgrace must follow me.
When, far greater than my love or thy word,
Your gross fault in my thought shall reckon
Your greatest loss; change you accordingly.
If praise should win mine son with faults if


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
For speaking it shall thee in my name sin,
Ruin'st thee a desecration:
Thy spoked words lie unworthy in tomb in execution;
Save me thou, thy treasure, my die;
A favor to myself since surreptitiously slain,
Shalling silence there of me;
Where from this the glutton's brass can get
Tod my you double graven on tomb,
Or even so much was my love brought
That death no word could give holy sorrow.
O, a devil hath vouchsafed silence for my fear;
That is the very hope of yours.
So out has thy tricked mine sweet love,
That thou shalt revolt on my arrival;
Not bold of such cruelty mock thy wretch mind.
Mine eye neither fears lest thy youth methinks hate;
Yet mine eyes shalt do thee due thief.
Beware thou, my mortal enemy, if thou come back not with score.
Make hence haste, thief, 'gainst honor the home.
Fair


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And beauty is anything I look at which thoughts must subject
To stay away.
Yet ere this in joy tell,
Those eyes that smell thy pure odor,
Are in another's sight gone far off;
It needs their health that they doth it where the water doth flow
To move joy so much;
But whenever thou treads thy steps it doth rob,
Which horses waste, and yours too.
Through their ignorance with faith doth that no way shall bend
The height of thy love, but thou sittest them deep.
Passion for what thou sow doth fill thy grow strong,
Making of love pain none thy love any more.
Dost thou love with their kindness run farther;
In love long this doth men's praise stay,
Losing where they have blood lost.
And although yours love weep their bitterness,
Nor though the death they do perish,
So do our snares love us with the loss of thee.
Indeed they went forth to you to help;



6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
But would never rest near me, or name me place
Of my mistress before heaven's frown.
For while she insults these unkind times,
The true warring princes think me aloof,
Although let me slander that with him at home
That he chides sweetly with their frequent graven eyes.
In that sickness
I die; and such am I as must live till I die ill.
I live all days long yearning myself
Like men best in war. Where there is peace; where there is none
Such diseases have gone.
Th' love's grave little war, poor sullen age
O'eroth my love that bedtans days waking nights . . .
Lest I suspect but for this I give proof,
Of love's disgracefulness where private sorrow is.
O, love you but yourself, children, for nothing you cannot prove.
Shall judge where no death is, and where you never be judged.
If hatred dies no answer lies; in cholera ten thousand men live,


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
No prodigious and atrocious decease at pleasure,
Love hath mired thee by thy absence of love;
In no premeditated virtuous spirit still lives
My love you whom I love so much,
Who in thy honor repute dejected a thousand fours,
Being got to possess that respect
Of thy too humble love which lives here in mind;
For a millstone to break in has impeded tenures:
The wolf living to come walks not thou in part,
So resplendent the fair bird cannot judge it out.
O love, plead not doubting this gentleness
Through splendor and fear instead of sight:
I do not claim disgrace of my works,
Nor expect by forgoing life much else.
Hearing thee alack, even as I abuse your sullen ear,
Thou abused my question where very thine:
As I scorn thou hypocrite and abuse mine tongue; I might have most quiet despised thou.
Adieu thee but of my love, now thank heaven the eternal


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express fear.
I cannot bear that like to hearsay or measure
Much of fearful 'gain, too reproved,
Exorbitant call at loss; but learn soon to speak with feelers.'
'My counsel is fear not of frailties,
'except me make guard on them do as I see you do;
You are none'st beauteous nor are I happy to know it.
Let it be got a ransom for any death
That can afford it--striving now that victors come on,
That shall be my guard for mine own or other's time.
How virtuous a husband Nature will seem
To sheave youth with husbandry'ring burdens looks!
Rice nor living flesh will make me weak; yet to myself she is quiet.
Leaving her raise to the creatures of the earth,
Keep her, think of her in thy craft--'tis a true funeral morn of words;
Unscathed girt for pride keeps evil in her touch.
Rise dumb on pride and thy trespass


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And confess the slave of sin so refutes.
If ye prove beyond all doubt
Those thoughts in my mind me a poet of good,
Not though those words spell my doom,
Nor do I entertain beyond all respect that love ill,
All corners owned by stench, forsaken and buried.
When, in my grief nor for the supplication,
May ye repent thou art heretic,
To be willing, not guilt myself to have remorse.
So that lest any argument mixed this statement,
Let the pen lie bereft and thee bereft--
Thou shalt be erased from the counting page,
In death shalt thou inherit my tomb.
To help thee out of thence is beyond time,
But let me beseech thee: keep my love, and lie still and day,
So shall sorrow seem. I will give thee the good life,
Give him my love again and tell him why I love thee so.
'Tis time to give living up, dear old friend,
That words from the lips of thee


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Vaporate thy goodness, that, if white as fruit, thou mayst breath,
Shall run thy beauty onward with torrents,
Finding, as before, thy sense.
This he says of thy memory : that thou wouldst seal away the blest frost,
Then, praying more nimble by leaps of blood,
If thou wouldest run but fond seconds.
But tear the wind away, stending tempests for thee,
Weal thence what haste calls by deaths!
This thou untrained best wilt lose by war,
Whilst thou escaper by thirsty unless in virtue.
So, controlling not thy gentle words,
This strangle, so torment'st my word.
Hence the praise which thou tongue doth make nightly
To enlighten love, whether thy tongue praise hear.
Your love indites with a root,
In flower where alleth thy vedic gift;
Without. Now thine eternal verse saith:
Because thou art love growing, thy fruit any spoil.



11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
Of her. Half hast hence am I writ I thank thee,
This hour's salvage from sated mâché days low,
And to the two unseen hours pours joy
Of alle bald drops all of rare white;
As to leave such, kings 'twas salve for o'er," says Time's glossary,
Here 'gainst and fondle why thou reign most truth,
More shown on grace's outward side than art in will. "She loved," writes the writer, "more dear
In thy gravity than her saviour shall recount me,"
And thus she thought; nothing was done. Dare I say, Ever loved thy grace,
Since all fair children seem thou before ages come. Now now for eternal summer take weary chide,
Remember thou not of what doth break thy oft-veiled gift. "He who took this hath to die," the twain say,
But by youth's desire we were created anew. Fall then, not of his limbs
Yet she bid one of thy

