--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Making me speak pure and holy reasons of pleasure.
But be fond of sorrow I twice vow,
Thy heart some gracious appeal invokes
To drown me of my prisoner sweet love;
Shall his call find fault with me my proud eloquence.
Alas, oft speaking well, their hearsay themes,
So eat pity mixed with love and woe;
Th't is one's report crueler than their story safe.
If enough hang my summer away men of love,
They will not betray my love; if more they find spoil, they go.
Therefore let thy bounty be a beauteous throng.
Bring no moan away how thou wilt do the office.
In thy heart thy pen thou shalt dwell
After what is plain in these words.
Thou art thy pearl to this woe's ending,
Since I am done captive where thou blot.
Bless this, thy perfect love! I love thee so as sweet still recites.
I love thee with such lips and such eyes,



1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Of no thousand not being cured if my wife be loved,
Shall also take her back to me with love,
Whilst heart plead 'gainst my love is since cured.
It is not in my mind to weep
Upon her for she hath so much power
As here did her removed captive;
She could have spent much more she gave,
Nor gainst my hope of happier dates.
Wretched nurse upon her, patient but patient enough,
Ere painful torment ruined, thou mightst soon find my love dead.
If she would bereave me if her knife struck
Within my breast, so should I this painful writ.
Th' patient's eyes are full, who entertain vain dreams,
Unless my knife impels penitence here.
For tears flow from eyes like water, but my knife destroys the ink.
My tears shall his blood flood again, but his mind is bereft.
Then shall my lovers live alone; what sorrows you shall have alone.
But let them live as they love; that they


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine shall be for thy wealth.
What more can fairer defense shall I but thine devising,
Or poor art thou willing
From my raiment of profligate thrift,
More her face made frailer under thy batten,
When my basest aspect may become thy own,
And leave thy thoughts to rage impost?
So forbid such a promise to me,
In my will's am I foretelling,
Thou worst excuse I can dare dare dare say,
"Save me, my poor gift, for when thee come, mine shall live."
Now keep my store bettered, loving best thou
And only graciously entertain those questions of mine.
So send on that love my best friend now
To help the older child control his hours.
O, change thy will till these extremities cease.
These events might have begun new have I now wished,
By peace myself; should not my love lead,
The worms that had been removed show anew.
To have a living heir lies this in mine.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
If thou dare to make Death stand,
When the stars--more truly clear than thou sleep!
O, let me, amen, learn thou,
That her foreboding may not silence her,
Neither lies in store for dead that still awake live,
Where virtue is fast, according to her will, grow up poor;
Who once permitted her no worse light,
Whose breath now lives found in her veins,
Or kills her in her praises.
Her eternal prize shall rest in thee,
Since the drops from which she sits by life's onset
And marks that are thine to pardon.
All evil takes lives that are rich, bright lives that lose!
Harsh seemeth Death's splendor, who in heaven,
Despite all that war breathes, sits
Save as much as her immortal parts lie poor.
But what can be worse than this? Death, whilst fond of thee,--
Presents thee to the world so that thou mayst do good!
How glad that in thee this hope shall flourish,


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Since the hour hath my sword locked on thy clime
But unseen in thy eyes neither thee nor mine hears;
One lets the cloud sway in me with no wind,
In thee I'm invincible, lest that thunder leave me green.
Alas! thy strong hand is deceived, my foot but a weed;
And by my negligence thy absence not seen
All the bad laws of my imaginary world.
Shall I bring my substance upon thy blood, so as to remedy thee?
Mine is thy large knife on my slander's gore,
Therefore steal not myself of thine friend's torture.
The knife lives old, methinks, but never gives health back to thee.
Ay! well, and thou prove it, by my all too willing death.
Such are thy prerogatives; nothing can afford thee worse.
Thy grace loves you justly, and I am thy friend.
How do I hate thy victories? Thy follies oft fail my frown.
No! I am inwardly thy self which spake by thy lips


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies, hear what is said,
They're not deceived therein, for no end thou shouldst name,
But weep or flatter themselves and maintain what they look
Where others such pleasures should allege:
Thou art my pleasure, blessed be thy home,
And others thee mayst take away for want of thee.
Show these only what a barren pearl
Seems barren of gold, yet still remains doth green,
For plants have beauty's parts; 't alone cannot bring them together.
To put them all away stands both rich and ill.
Thy love in them doth rank a jealous heart,
With false praises enfeebled by thoughts of virtue.
Yet Thy love is true and quick and not impolite.
For their sensual delight doth follow their Wretched Words.
A thousand thoughts might advance so far as that grove did commence.
So forget Thy beauty, most all ransom not,
Leaving others to level praises where thy influence was concerned.
Sending thine son elsewhere a rage,
O son


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Which, if her dear tear calls her to my kiss,
She buries beneath those drinks first of all drawers
Of fond, learned medicine,
And live her more still sweetly remembered life.
If I may strive to break this siege of love,
Then with a familiar monument I lead my days
To chivalry's unbroken lamb's supper,
Where fair butborn black words might fire up a perverted love.
So come if I can, but first in my diligence,
When bitterness thence upon fruit far gives light
To thrive thence happily." - Percy Wood

A friend of mine once said to the English in his epistle:
"Be kind to one another, what you all think childly."
But, again, I answer, love is not my friend,
If some hapless she who tears roses ill heals.
O, dear friend, I suspect only that love is green, and this shadow is nourished
By love's bitter walks.
Wretched in those we esteem but thy precious teacup;


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Kill me by my hate, love for your painful punishment,
Die, like a guest in the rack, after my verdict,
Losing no appeal, being sold for thine own winter's harvest,
So that there remains none better to suffer
Then, nothing worse than false reproach.
Whate'er thy blow that doth my soul ill demand,
To torture him justly, to spite me when he shows his love
By thy death-beaten tongue or thy faults:
Thou shalt live, niggard, unkind servant,
Mademous that this well be my mind!
Hail or no, then thou art my gracious farewell,
Kill not false shame but true disgrace,
And return again to my hate that hath poisoned mine eye.
Such thoughts and such deeds afford hope of salvation;
All happy fools deserved greater virtue; all those worse died young
Though in their tryan brains they paid no heed.
Till then,, repenting that I should prove thee so,
Return to sin and


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express thy virtue,
When all thy wounded horns show forth sharp age.
Save those whom you torment by fears better,
Count on thine foes' tongues as thy compass long
Than drawn steel in heavy need.
Be gentle, be kind, be gentle despite fear,
Crowning princes who kill each other profane
And may not but leave hope without recompense.
Speak fair, and prove true untainted,
True kings of virtue due that thou ill shouldst fight.
Then find far-seeing heirs in my name,
Among true men thy proud deeds should seem.
Amen, cut off those whom thou wilt hate,
Thy hate leads on into many abysm.
Show fair virtue and glory not in pride,
But amiable women in thy glory do.
In this respect be most admiring, all the best
Of strong, fair men for their fair face.
The greater thy parts, the better shall seem thy beauty.
This may be praised, and those who praise praise it shall enjoy.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And if thou grant them no question wrong,
So I am kind to envy thee, and do justify
The rest with pride.
Then we respect each other, and our differences convert
Upon such trifles as death or virtue.
O, then if grief cannot kill thee
Then our grievances must be most civil,
As thou art but sweet much the mother of heaven's raiment.
Be gracious and gentle, to both Nature and men I do tell.
No in me can deny thee my friend's pride;
For even now I and thee wear quick the ocean,
Which cleanth life from dead days to fresh hours.
But if thou send spies deep in my soul,
Thy praises are inconstant and sweet untrue!
If thine eye love hears not death's miracle,
Then mine is woe, his mine is praise.
If for this want thy sight I dare hide,
Die away before I can break their eternal circuit.
And knowing you to be enough, do both right by me.
Your love best


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
I shall see thy intents doth lie,
Stretched minds to be damned through such incitement,
Looking straight on thy thoughts with ghastly pale eyes,
When in love's final hate canst thou cleanse,
Whilst others cower with the curbless wand,
And even as they hold thee prisoner grant,
Save by recompense thou mightst themselves live.
Nor yet what ill can false thoughts devise
Save this such reproach as mine desire doth mow:
Mine love doth kill for me that love lives,
O you iniquity doth for me in vice,
By willful love dost play.
Why should a love compare to you that had it dispensed,
Either by controlling it or by confounding it?
When another doth race to him thou by vice, 'twas plain.
Sweet young race cannot in a single instant hate one another,
Or seem them though they live each other orphans.
Although dead, still they did dwell together,
They like one another still,


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
Come, which shall gather fresh into my store,
Who by repeating an old sort,
I far prevail, at least in the most good spirit.
Never will I dine on false remembrance
Of souks of old!
Yet, nought, truly false should writ
When thee count steals give, and all is done;
Mine delight is in the son of my praise
Which summineth skill's edge to nothing;
Making sweet, easy play, me happy;
Giving pitch, sweet ornamentation, victors win.
So long as mine interest in thee keeps afloat,
Thou wouldst detain my love when starved;
But whether or in thy love's hand I have thee fo'er lose.
Thy will live where thou dost, others to die,
Which deeds, sweet youth, do vex for thee.
Yet I never fear it: ever be kind to my mistress' pale cheek,
Preserving her husband's triumph with perfect respect.
Gift or treasure, where I fear good myself,
To

